Now these people that live this life,
do they have something they're working towards?
Did they have an idea that they're working towards?
Does it mean when you,
when you press them on it and ask them like,
why you here?
Do you ever plan on leaving?
Do you ever see yourself going somewhere else?
That's a really good question.
I asked him all those questions.
So,
uh,
no.
They felt like that was their calling,
their calling.
They were doing what they were supposed to be doing.
Hmm.
And,
um,
that they were committed to that lifestyle.
So no,
they were in a,
there was no thought of going back.
There had been monks that have left the monastery,
just wasn't the right lifestyle for them.
But the monks that were there when I was there,
you know,
50 years they were committed and they're not going anywhere.
That's what confusing to me.
Like I understand that they're enjoying and I understand that they're,
they,
they liked that life,
but that it's a calling,
like the calling to do nothing or just think,
maybe it's just sacrifice,
serve God.
Um,
live a life of purity.
This is not right.
I understand.
I couldn't do it.
But I think that's kind of the mindset around it.
And um,
step away from
the regular life that they were living.
What's interesting is that the,
they weren't born into the monastery.
A lot of these guys made this decision in their twenties,
thirties,
you know,
so what were their jobs before they did it all over the board.
All over the board.
Literally,
uh,
one guy,
I mean,
one of the most of the lifeguard is a teenager.
Wow.
I mean,
just all over the board.
So,
um,
but regular jobs just always felt connected to God and connected to this higher
living a life.
Just,
you know,
under these terms.
But what's fascinating to me is that you're saying that there was so happy
because if you get a rent,
I mean,
how many,
how many people were in this monastery?
Uh,
eight and they're all male.
Yes.
Eight men.
If you get eight random men in there,
you know,
what's the youngest age of the guys who 35,
35 up to 70,
you get eight random.
35 to 70 is now is how many of them are happy,
actually truly happy,
maybe too,
right?
How many people do think are happy?
Well,
they just did a study as a famous Harris study on happiness in this country.
I think 67% of the people are unhappy that it's fucked.
Here's what I did.
This jail,
you'll,
this is a good test.
Maybe you,
you'll want to do this.
I did this when I was speaking at an event for 500 Wall Street people recently
and it was fascinating.
I'll,
I'll take you through it.
You can tell me if you're comfortable with it,
but if you take all the areas of your life and put them in a blender,
okay,
so take a,
where you live,
your relationships,
your finances,
your health,
everything,
everything.
Put it in one fucking big blender and blend it up.
And on a scale of one to 10 with a 10 being the Dalai Lama of happiness and a
one being a guidance at rock was zero.
Being someone that's at rock bottom.
What your happiness number
me?
Yeah,
I'm pretty fucking happy.
Well,
I don't know.
I wouldn't do it that way.
I definitely wouldn't give it a number.
Okay.
Because I feel like the,
you're,
you're making something,
you're turning like a constant state of thinking and expression and
consideration.
You're turning it into a number.
And I just,
I don't like that idea.
I don't like that idea because I think it's a management issue.
I think a lot of what happiness is a management issue and decisions that you're
making right now.
Like you could be in a shit state of mind right now,
but you can make some decisions to adjust that and over the next couple hours
you'll get to a much better place.
And these constant management decisions,
they waver in and out of your life on a daily basis.
Like this idea that you could have a good mindset,
then all of a sudden you'll be happy.
That's horse shit.
Like it's,
that's like,
it's like the tide,
it comes in and it comes out and there's gonna be days where you're just not
feeling so good physically and that's going to affect the way your happiness
level is.
It's never static.
It's not the exactly the same.
True.
But if you look at it overall at 30,000 feet and you had to give yourself a
grade,
we happy as fuck is what I would say.
Happy.
Okay.
I'll take that.
Most people in that room,
yeah,
raised there.
I said if anyone is seven and uh,
you know,
for anyone listening that wants to do it,
raise your hand if you're,
you know,
seven or below.
I don't want to put anyone on the spot.
And majority of the room stood up being a seven and thinking,
you know,
like seven's pretty happy number but a seven
if my son comes home with a 70 on a test
to c minus.
Right.
And all I'm saying is,
but what was interesting about the test though,
if you do actually go through the process for those that like go through the and
get a number in their head or whatever,
do you want to give yourself a grade your brain or automatically goes to a 10
and then subtract the two or three things pop in that make you better bring your
happiness down.
It's a great way to identify what's making you unhappy and that,
you know what I mean?
Like you started at 10 you're like,
oh fuck my relationship or this or that.
Usually it triggers an automatic like this is what's fucked up in my life
response and you can,
it helps you identify.
But it's interesting.
We have benchmarks and so many things in our life.
You have an Iq test,
you have tax brackets to measure your,
your wealth or financial statements.
You have Iq tests.
Like I said,
you can get on a scale to measure your weight,
but you're right,
happiness is one of those things.
It's like how do you benchmark it?
You know what I mean?
It kind of fluctuates and it's like hunger.
I mean it's,
it's,
it's something that's go,
it goes in and out.
It's always there.
But happy as fuck is a is a good answer.
Yeah.
But I,
this is something I've cultivated for a long time and avoided things that make
me unhappy and figured out what those things are and been very rigid about
eliminating them from my life.
And one of the big ones is eliminating interactions with people that are
negative.
That is gigantic and B,
because I've realized that I'm not really as independent as I used to like to
think I was,
I used to like to think that my thought process was independent and that I don't
give a fuck what anybody thinks.
That's nonsense.
People say that because they absolutely care what people think and it bothers
them so they say,
I don't give a fuck,
but that I don't give a fuck.
Stuff is almost entirely nonsense.
You do care and you care in both ways.
You care if people are critical of you've care if people are positive view,
but you also care if people are living positive lives and they're motivating
you.
That's that's a big one.
People are fuel and other people.
It's one of the reasons why I like talking to people.
One of the reasons why I like to do podcasts because I get a lot out of,
you know,
like just talking to you about your time in the monastery or your,
your push to get to that hundred miles.
Like you get energy out of people like that and you think about this energy and
you think about this inspiration when you're doing other things.
And it also sets in your mind that when you meet these exceptional people that
move you,
like what are the characters?
What are the qualities that they have?
What are the characteristics that they,
that they possess?
And those things become significant and important to you.
Whereas if you live around a bunch of people that are complaining and bitching
about everything and they see the negative in everything and they're always
whining,
those people are the opposite of that.
They're the opposite of inspiration and they're,
they're just there.
They're mud and you're just like,
whoa.
It's like you're up to your ankles and bud,
you try to trudge through life.
It's difficult.
You're not light.
It's not,
it's not pushing it.
It's not a wind at your back.
The winds in your face and it's rough,
you know?
And over time I've learned that these people,
you just,
you're not going to fix him.
I used to want to fix them when I was young.
I used to want to go,
hey man,
I see what you're doing.
Like,
dude,
don't do that anymore.
Listen,
just try it.
Just,
just do this and,
and stop doing that and start doing this.
And if you just work towards this,
you could be successful.
And then a week later the guys doing the same shit and you're like,
okay,
I'm wasting a significant amount of my energy on someone who doesn't want to
waste any of their energy on themselves.
And so managing the,
the community and the tribe that you're in,
making sure that you're a good member of that tribe,
that your doing your part,
you know?
And there's a lot of cynicism in these days about a inspiration and about
motivation because there's a lot of fake shit.
You know,
you can go on Instagram and you see a million of these inspirational quote pages
and there were run by people that are probably depressed.
You know,
you see a lot of people that are,
you know,
talking about how to get ahead in life,
but they're not really doing anything themselves.
So there's a lot of cynicism involved in that.
But there's also sincerity in it and you can get,
if you just look at it with a pure heart and a pure mind,
you can get a lot of energy out of that.
And when you're around happy,
inspirational people that are successful,
it makes you feel better and you get inspired.
And if you act on that inspiration,
your life will be more fulfilled.
And it's not just inspirational in terms of financial success,
but in terms of doing difficult things,
whether it's running a hundred miles,
it doesn't pay you a goddamn thing other than the the,
the wealth of the knowledge that you can push yourself to such an extreme or
anything else.
Whether it's someone who becomes really good at playing chess or someone who's
really good at martial arts or,
or whatever it is,
there's,
there's a great feeling in these overcoming these difficult things because life
is never this just constant state of I'm at a nine all day and when I'm with my
wife,
I hit 10 Yay and I stay like that.
That's not real.
What's real is like you saying that you went to this monastery and felt all
this,
this anx about meditating and being alone and not having your phone and not
having the input,
but then when it comes out of it,
then you have this reward.
So you,
you push through this and you had these uncomfortable feelings and you came out
of those uncomfortable feelings with this newfound appreciation for time and
this new found respect for your own existence in your own space and carving out
three hours for yourself a day.
That's where it all comes from.
It all comes from life lessons and the lessons that are learned through struggle
and I think that there's a lot of people out there that think somehow or another
you're going to get to some place where you're living in silk sheets and you get
your toes done or someone's dropping grapes into your mouth.
I don't want that.
I've never wanted that.
That guy's not going to be happy.
He's going to be bored our into the grapes.
You can we get those fucking grapes away from me.
Stop painting my toes.
What am I doing in this bed?
I got to do something.
I'm not stimulated.
The human organism,
the animal that we are needs constant stimulation because it evolved.
Trying to find food and escape enemies and find shelter,
escape nature,
escape the elements,
try to survive.
And this is the great joy that you haven't taken care of your children,
that you can protect your children from the elements and the enemies and feed
them.
And,
and it's also the great sadness that you see in losers.
When I see a loser,
I see some guys,
43 years old,
lives in his parents' basement and he fucking hates the world.
And like that was a baby man.
This is a baby that somebody just gave shitty nutrients to,
whether its nutrients in the forms of food or in the form of thoughts and ideas
and the examples.
And this kid developed this horrible defeating patterns of behavior that have
led them to this point where there's this middle aged person with no future and
no idea of how to get out of this Rut and probably never will escape it and
might just wind up sucking on a gun.
You know?
I mean this is,
this is the world that we live in today.
And I think part of that world is because we have been fed this line of Horse
Shit that you're supposed to seek comfort and I don't think you are.
I think you're supposed to seek lessons and you supposed to seek difficult tasks
and and and,
and,
and accomplishments and through those things and through doing things that are
hard to do,
even if it's just a fucking 90 minute hot yoga class,
I do a 90 minute yoga class,
man.
I those last 20 minutes,
I do not want to be there man.
And I definitely don't want to give 100% and I can cheat.
I can,
I could kind of half acid.
but if I don't and I get through it,
when that time is up and the lady says no day and everybody gets up,
I'm like fuck man,
I made it,
you know,
I lost 15 pounds.
My fucking Yoga Mat is drenched.
The point where I get literally wring it out and fill up a jug up with water.
But through that struggle,
I will now have a better day and I better fucking do it again tomorrow or do
something else.
Because if I just think,
well,
tomorrow I'm just going to coast and eat Twinkies and watch TV.
Oh,
hello sadness,
my old friend.
Hello.
Depression.
Because when you're not doing anything,
you feel like shit,
and that's just a part of being a human being.
And we can pretend that we're something other than what we really are and we
could pretend me,
man,
I'm just cool.
Just chilling,
doing nothing.
Bullshit.
You're a fucking human.
You're a human being.
You,
you evolve from the fucking hundreds,
thousands of years of hunters and gatherers and people who are struggling.
Those real human reward systems are carved deeply into your DNA.
And if you don't respect that,
if you don't respect the mechanism of happiness and fulfillment and what you
really need to do in order to feel satisfied in life,
comradery,
love,
family,
friendship,
struggle,
testing yourself,
learning,
all those things are imperative.
They're all a giant part of being a person.